Dark Iron Dome
Helmet
- Your spells cost 1 more.
- Whenever you take damage from an enemy, prevent 1 of that damage.



Short Sword
Weapon
Your Physical Non-Elemental attacks do 1 more damage.


Long Sword
Weapon
Your Physical Non-Elemental attacks do 3 more damage and cost 1 more.



Shield Amulet
Necklace
- Whenever you would be dealt damage, prevent 50% of that damage, rounded up.
- Your spells cost 50% more, rounded down.



Axe Quiver
Backpack
At the start of your turn, add a Throwing Axe card to your hand.

Throwing Axe - 1 Cost Physical Non-Elemental Spell
Deal 5 Physical Damage to a random enemy.


Dingo Companion
1 Cost Divine Summon
Stats: 
1/1/1/1/1

Cards:
- Spider Companion



Spider Companion
1 Cost Cosmic Summon
Stats:
1/1/1/1/1 

Cards:
- Dingo Companion



Rebel Army
5 Cost Light Summon
Fill the Room with Rebel Soldiers.

Rebel Soldier
Stats:
5/5/1/1/5

Cards:
- 



Life Force
2 Cost Light Spell
Deal Magical Damage to any target equal to your current HP



Death Grip
2 Cost Divine Spell
Deal Magical Damage to any target equal to that target's missing health (Maximum minus Current health)



Channeled Force
X Cost Arcane Spell
Deal Y Magical Damage to any target. Y equals the number of spells you've cast this turn plus X.



Raining Blows
3+X Cost Water Spell
Choose a target. Deal Physical Damage equal to your Strength to that target X times.


Sol Ring
Ring
- At the start of your turn, Restore 2 MP.
- Your Maximum MP is reduced by 1.



Firebomb Satchel
Equipment
7 Charges
- At the start of a battle, if this has a charge, add a Firebomb to your hand.
- Whenever you cast a Firebomb, if this has a charge, add a Firebomb to your hand.
- Whenever this Equipment adds a Firebomb to your hand, reduce it's charges by 1.

Firebomb
1 Cost Fire Spell
Deal 5 Physical damage to any target.



Trainee's Vestments
Equipment Set
Set Bonus: +15% XP earned.



Ring of Three Wishes
Ring
3 Charges.
- You can't draw cards except with this Equipment and at the start of your turn.
- Active Ability: Pay 5 Mana and 1 Charge: Search your deck for a card and draw it.



Runestone: 
Amulet
- Your spells cost 1 less.
- Your hand size is reduced by 2.



Card Upgrades:
- Muscle Memory
Increases the card's Repeat count by 1.
- Spell Mastery: 
Reduces the card's cost by 1.
- Raw Power: 
Increase the cards damage by 1.
- Rush: 
Reduces the card's cost by 1 as long as it's the first card you play in a turn.
- Efficiency:
Increase the card's Charges by 1.
- Ace: 
Always start battles with this card in your hand.



Card Curses:
- Bloodletting:
Whenever you cast this card, you lose 1 life.



Miracles:
Version 1: A type of spell that automatically casts when drawn, if you have a certain amount of cards in your deck.
Version 2: When you draw a miracle, you may choose to cast it for free if you meet the requirements. If you don't play it this way, draw it like normal.



Natural Order
5 Cost Earth Spell
Destroy an entity with lesser strength.



Status Effects:
- Grevious Injury:
Reduces Maximum HP by 1 for each stack.
- Focus:
The next damage-dealing attack is a guaranteed Critical Hit.
- Resilience:
Reduces damage taken from enemy attacks by 1.
- Barrier:
Absorbs 1 damage from an enemy attack.
- Light/Dark Shift:
This unit receives inverted damage and healing.



Inner Demon
10 Cost Arcane Spell
Transform into a Demon.
Base Stats:
5/5/5/5/5
Traits:
* Wrath of Ages:
Cards gain bonus effects based on how many rounds have elapsed since the battle begun.
* Rising Rage:
Each round, increase the damage of each card in your hand, deck, and void by 1.
Cards:
* Artillery Fire



Wage War
1 Cost Fire Spell
All Entities gain +1 Strength-Up and +1 Focus.



Greater Purpose
Light Spell
Target Entity gains +1 HP Regen, +1 Resilience, and +10 Barrier. Dispel all negative status effects from them.



Card Traits:
- Unique:
Can only have 1 copy in your deck/hand/graveyard/void at any time.
- Voidbound:
Goes to your void instead of your graveyard.
- Ephemeral:
Disappears at the end of each turn.
- Ace:
Always start battles with this in your opening hand.



Blood for Blood
Water Spell
Each enemy loses HP equal to your missing HP.



Seek Power
Air Spell
Search your deck for a card that does damage and draw it.



Trance
Arcane Spell
Choose a card in your hand, deck, graveyard or void. All cards in your hand, deck and graveyard become copies of that card until the end of your turn.



Resplendence
Light Spell
Miracle Requirement: 20 cards in Starting Deck.
Heal all allies for X health. X is equal to half of their Maximum HP rounded up.




"Again!"
Fire Shout Command
An ally plays a copy of the last card they played during their last turn.



Passive Cards:
Version 1: Passive cards are added to the deck like normal. But they do not appear in battles. These passives have weaker effects.
Version 2: These passive cards are put in the deck like normal cards, and appear in battles and can be drawn like normal cards but cannot be cast. These passives have stronger effects.



Frying Pan
Weapon
Grants cards:
Bash: Deals damage equal to 2x Strength.
Block: Grants X Barrier.



Grace From Above
4 Cost Divine Spell
Miracle.
Heal yourseld for half of your missing health. Gain Barrier equal to half of your missing health. Restore 1 MP.



Death Sentence
10 Cost Cosmic Spell
The target will die in 10 turns. This cannot be undone.



Life After Death
3 Cost Divine Spell
The target becomes a Zombie. Zombies can't be healed by normal means, and are immune to Instant Death.




Phantom - Status
Immune to Physical abilities. Cannot deal damage with Physical abilities. Takes more damage from Magical Attacks.



Pain Amp
2 Cost Arcane Spell
Does X damage for each negative status affecting the target.



Dark Iron Blade:
* Your cards cost 1 more.
* Your physical attacks do 1 more damage.



Flow Of Ideas
4 Cost Water Spell
For the rest of your turn, you can pay 1 and discard a card to draw a card.



Heartfire 
2 Cost Fire Spell
Costs HP instead of MP. Deals 5 damage to any target.



"We don't fear death!"
Earth Shout
Grant all allies bonus attack and damage reduction based on how much HP they're missing.



Echo of Power
3 Cost Arcane Spell
Create a temporary copy of the highest cost spell in your hand.



Secret Spellbook
Weapon
At the start of your turns, create and draw a random 1 Cost card.



Insane in the Membrane
Passive(?)
At the end of this entity's turn, all entities play a random card from their hand/deck for free. Targets are chosen randomly.



Echo of the Finale
9 Cost Divine Spell
Replace your hand with a temporary copy of each card you played during the last turn of the last battle you won.



Weapon Master
1 Cost Fire Spell
Additional Cost: 1 more Mana for each item you have equipped.
For each card that was given by an item you have equipped, cast a copy of that card, with targets chosen randomly.



Hurricane
Air Spell
Deals heavy damage to all enemies and shuffles around their boons, conditions, and equipped items between them.



Quick Swap
Fire Spell
Change your equipped weapons.



Blunderblast
Fire Spell
Fire 7 bursts. 1 shot hits the target. All others hit a random enemy.



Sleight-Of-Mind
Arcane Spell
Swap your hand and deck.



?
Spell
Summon all unequipped weapons from your inventory as Haunted Weapons, that have their own stats and cards. When a Haunted Weapon dies, it returns to your inventory.



Everyone's Enmity
15 Cost - Light Spell
For each positive status effect on an enemy, dispel it then attack that enemy with varying base power.
Notes: Base power depends on all the status effect variables.
Attempts to dispel status effects that can't be dispelled.



Mind Over Matter
0 Cost - Arcane Spell
Additional Cost: +3 MP for each non-spell card in your hand.
Discard all non-spell cards, then draw 1 spell card for each card discarded this way.



Local Teleport
2 Cost Arcane Spell
In battle: Guaranteed to flee the battle.
Out of battle: Allows you to teleport up to 10 tiles away, including across gaps and through walls.



Demolish
Fire Spell
In battle: Deal heavy damage to any target that has barrier.
Out of battle: Break down flimsy walls.



The City - Buildings:
* Survivalist: Teaches cards that can be used outside of battle.
* Library: Offers the widest selection of cards.
* Armourer: Gives and upgrades equipment.
* Personal Trainer: Allows player to permanently upgrade stats.
* Doctors: Sells healing items. Can heal diseases and grevious wounds.
* Housing: Increases the maximum number of people you can invite to your city.
* Search and Rescue Station: Gives you missions to find people. Also gives temporary housing for people rescued on missions.
* Town Hall: Gives every type of mission. All cities start with a town hall. Maybe also allows you to put together a team of characters that party with you on missions, and handle their gear/cards.
* Warehouse: Increases the maximum number of materials you can store for building and upgrading buildings.
* Menagerie: Allows the player to acquire summoned creatures. Can also give summons new cards and permanent stat boosts.
* Philosophers' Den: Allows the player to upgrade cards, maybe combine cards as well.



Equinox
Light Spell
Choose one:
* Deal damage.
* Heal anyone.



Purple
Arcane Spell
- "Chaos"
- Waste an opponents time. Deal zero damage.
- Has 1 health.



Radiance
Light Spell.
Deal damage to all enemies. For each stack of Burning they have, inflict a stack of Grevious Wounds.



Wizard Robes
Equipment
Your Spell cards cost 0.75x, but you take 1.5x damage from cards that aren't Spells.



Victory Cry
Fire Shout
Has X charges, where X is the number of battles you've one.
For each charge, give a random ally a random positive status effect. The caster is always guaranteed to get the first status.



Flip Kick
Air Technique
Deal damage to one target and cure the caster of negative status effects.



Axe Kick
Earth Technique
Deals large damage to one target and inflicts Vulnerable.



How do Techniques differ from Spells?
Any number of the following ways:
* Scales off the user's Strength instead of Intelligence by default. But can scale of Agility as well.
* Techniques require practice to master. Using an unmastered technique means reduced effectiveness, but repetition is required for mastery.
* Some characters have a different resource from MP to play cards. Characters that don't have MP can't play Spells but can use Techniques.
* Techniques are inspired by real world things such as martial arts.



What is a Shout?
* A Shout is a special type of card. 
* Shouts don't cost anything to play by default, but can only be played once per turn.
* Shouts can have additional or secondary costs.



What is a Chant?
* A Chant is a special type of card. 
* When one entity plays a Chant, they begin "chanting". 
* If the chanter plays any other card, the current chant ends. If they play a different Chant, then the current one ends and the second chant begins.
* The Chanters allies can join in. On their turn they will have a "cardless" card that lets them participate in the Chant. "Cardless" cards cannot leave the zone they're
* The more people that participate in a Chant, the more effective it is.
* Chants need to be played by at least one caracter per turn cycle in order to be maintained. If a whole turn cycle goes by with nobody contributing, it will end. That means the Chant can go on if the entity who started it is defeated or stops chanting.



List of Keywords and their effects:
* Repeater: When you play this card, it goes to the top of your draw pile instead of your discard pile. If a card with Repeater is exiled upon play, then the exile effect takes priority.
* Ace: You are guaranteed to draw this card during your first turn of battle.
* Temporary: This card disappears (is exiled) at the end of your turn if its in any zone other than your exile.
* Exile: When you play this card, exile it instead of sending it to your discard pile. In any other situation, it is discarded normally.



Advanced Card Display:
Right-clicking on a card will open the ACD. This is a whole screen detailed display of the card.
Cards have an array of Enums to be displayed in the ACD next to a picture of the card. Each Enum correlates to a string that gives a detailed description of something.
The ACD can also provide clarification card effects that may be confusing or ambiguous, in addition to information on how the card interacts with other things.



Meditation:
1 Cost Light Technique:
Next turn, you heal 1 HP, 1 MP, and cure one status effect on yourself.



Ruin
Non-Elemental Spell
Deal damage to any one target. Non-Elemental cards do not factor in any elemental affinities.



Mage
Character Class
Resource: MP
Passive: Restore 1 MP per turn only while in battle.



Elemental Strike
Non-Elemental Technique
When you cast this, choose an element. This card has that element only while it deals damage. (Each time you play it, you can pick a different element. This is because it doesn't track your choice, and the card itself always remains non-elemental.)
Alternate description: When you play this card, pick an element. This card deals damage of the chosen element.



Charley Horse
Water Spell
Inflict a muscle spasm on the target.



Panic Attack
X Cost Arcane Spell.
Generate and shuffle X random cards into each entities' card zones chosen at random. Each card disappears at the end of the battle. They have the "Panic Attack" keyword. Entities must cast at least one card with that keyword per turn if they have a card with that keyword in their hand.



Coaching
Earth Technique
Choose an ally and a card type. During that ally's next turn, cards of the chosen type cost less to play.



Meltdown
Fire Spell
Deal damage to one target and inflict 1 stack of Burning for each piece of equipment they're wearing.



"I've got you in my sights!"
Air Shout
This turn, your cards ignore Dodge on the target.



Baton Pass
? Cost Air Technique
The user transfers all of their status effects to an ally.



Battle Hymn
Water Shout & Chant
Allies gain 1 stack of IntelligenceUp.
Enemies gain 1 stack of WisdomDown.



"There is no land for us beyond the Volga!"
Earth Shout
Cleanses stuns and other similar status effects.
Allies gain 1 stack of ToughnessUp.
(Change the re-world references as well.)



Dazed
Status Effect
Entity cannot use Spells or Techniques this turn (but can use other types of cards.)
Wears off at the end of their turn.



"Gods will it!"
Non-Elemental Shout
Choose an element. Until end of turn, all of your cards become the chosen element.



Boil
? Cost Fire Spell
Deal damage to one target. Deal more damage for each Water Spell they own.



Barbaric Yawp
Earth Shout
Until end of turn, you lose all but 1 Intelligence. You gain that much Strength.



Heat The Soul
1 Cost Fire Spell
Until end of turn, all of your damaging spells have +1 base power.



Earthquake
? Cost Earth Spell
Deal heavy earth damage to all enemies, then daze enemies who have half health or less.



Dragons
Creatures that do not die of old age, and suffer diseases very, very rarely.
They live to fight, and fight to die.
Due to constant combat, their limbs never stop growing.
They are sentient, they do recognize their built-in unending drive to fight.
It's very rare to meet one in person. Their numbers have never been high, due to few-and-far-between births.
One boss in-game is an Ancient Dragon, survivor of a thousand battles, covered in scars and endlessly growing wings and limbs.



Peculiar Cairn
4 Cost Earth Summon
"Keywords":
Passive: This entity cannot attack or play any cards.
Stone: This entity cannot be affected by most status effects.
Conduit: All allies' cards cost 1 less to play.
Sturdy: Only takes 1 damage per hit.



Demi
X Cost Cosmic Spell
Choose a target. For each mana spent to play this card, attempt to cut the targets' current HP in half.



"Open fire!"
Fire Shout
Each ally that has a Ranged Weapon or a Fire Spell in their hand uses one of those things chosen at random.



Snow Fox
Enemy
Will alternate between buffing itself or debuffing enemies one turn and attacking the next.



Pounce
? Cost Air Technique
Deals extra damage if you didn't deal any damage with cards during your previous turn.



Traits:
Like keywords, but attached to entities.
Players, enemies, and summons can have traits.
Traits are printed on summon cards the same way keywords are printed on cards.



Gods
There are eight; one for each element.
The gods have always existed. They were not born, and they will not die.
They are one part sentient being, one part force of nature, and one part ?
They created all worlds, and each of the eight played a different part.



Demigods
Beings that were born mortal, but gained a small sliver of godly power.
They do not age, like the gods. But they can be killed, like mortals.
Despite to their semi-eternal lives, all demigods do eventually die.
Their mortal minds cannot resist the temptations of their godly power forever. They succumb to a very mortal kind of corruption and make mistakes that get them killed.



The Eight Elements:
Arcane: Most easily manipulates cards; drawing discarding, exiling, and adding and removing keywords.
Cosmic: The realm of the celestial bodies, so named because some people believe that the gods carve pieces of themselves off when creating new ones.
* Massive costing cards with big effects.
* Summons heavenly bodies.
Divine: The one that can bend and break the rules the most. Also the most capable of summoning beings from nothing, because after all, "Creation is Divine".



Wound Reflection
? Cost Spell
This spell always costs X, where X is twice the number of spells you cast during your last turn.
For each time target entity was dealt damage during your last turn, deal that much damage to them again.



Last Words
15 Cost Arcane Spell
Deal damage to one enemy. If this spell defeats that enemy, you may draft a card from their Deck and (permanently) add it to your Collection.



"Get them!"
? Shout
?



Compulsion
? Cost Divine Spell
Choose an entity, then look at their hand and choose a card. Force them to cast that card, ignoring all primary and secondary costs.



Unkind Universe
? Cost Cosmic Spell
Steal all positive status effects from all enemies, then give one enemy all negative status effects among all allies.



Dwarf Moon/Planet
Cosmic Summon
Traits:
Passive.
Gravity: Draws in all single target spells to itself.
Tidal Lock: All Water cards are disabled.



Asteroid Belt:
X Cost Cosmic Spell
For each MP spent to cast this, deal damage to two different random enemies.



The Advanced Card Display
Random Idea / UX Mechanic
When using the ACD to view an entity (any kind except the player), the player can use this screen to apply cosmetic changes such as different skins.



Ace Up Your Sleeve
1 Cost Arcane Spell
Choose one:
- Draw a card.
- Gain 1 MP



Stars Align
Cosmic Spell
Shuffle your Hand and Discard Pile into your Draw pile. Then search your Draw Pile for 5 cards and draw them.



Rescue Dog
Light Summon
Traits:
Rescuer: Healing cards are 1.25x more effective.

Cards:
- HP and MP restoring cards.
- "Self defence" cards.
- "Animalistic" cards



Wounded Animal
Earth Technique
Deals bonus damage if you have 1/2 HP or less. Has bonus effect if you have 1/4 HP or less.



Lash Out
Fire Technique
Deal damage to every enemy that dealt damage between your last turn and your current turn.



"No price is too great!"
Light Shout
Additional Cost: Sacrifice any amount of HP.
Each enemy loses that much strength. If you sacrificed 1/2 of your maximum HP or more with this card, inflict each enemy with negative status effects. (Increase the damage they take, mana degeneration)



"Treatments"
A list of cosmetic types that the player can apply to cards:
- Alternate arts
- Alternate card borders
- Foiling



Hardening
Status Effect
Whenever this entity takes damage from a card, it gains 1 stack of Hardening.
Hardening increases Toughness and Wisdom by 1 per stack.



Elemental Hardening
Whenever this entity takes damage from an elemental ability, it gains 1 stack of Elemental Hardening.
Elemental Hardening increases all Defensive Affinities by 25 per stack.



(Element) Piercing
This entity ignores half of the target's (Element) Defensive Affinity.



Rat Abilities:
- scratch
- bite
- screech
- call for friends
- vomit
- swarm attack (each rat attacks one target at the same time)



Bloodstained Trance
? Technique
Whenever you cast a card that Resolves and does damage, gain 1 stack of Bloodstained Trance.
Whenever one of your cards Resolves without dealing damage, lose all stacks of Bloodstained Trance.



Bum Rush
Air Technique
Does extra damage if it's the first card you play in a turn.



"Save our souls!"
Light Shout
Heal all allies for a large percentage of their max HP. Inflict a Heal Block on all allies (a status effect that prevents all healing, and expires at the end of their turns.)



Ad Nauseam
Light / Arcane Spell
Deal damage to all entities. Base power is equal to the number of Ad Nauseam cards played this battle.



Judgment
Light Shout
If the target has dealt damage to another entity, prevent them from playing Spells, Techniques and Shouts for X turns.
If they haven't, cure them of all negative status effects, and heal their HP and MP for a small amount.



Mining Automata
Enemy Entity
Cards:
- Bum Rush
- "Open fire!"
- Meltdown
- Drill: 
Earth Technique
Does damage that ignores barrier.
- Gather Gems:
Light Technique
The caster gains random positive status effects



Hard Mode:
Difficulty Setting
Instead of simply tweaking numbers, Hard Mode does the following:
- Enemies have more cards in their deck.
- Enemies have different decks with more synergistic cards.
- Enemies have more advanced AI.
- Random Events are more unfavourable (gives less rewards or healing, does more damage.)



Belome, the Bandit
Random Event
You are stopped by a rugged, battle-scarred man. He demands you pay a price before he will let you pass. You can:
- Agree to pay, in which case he will remember this and demand more payment if you cross paths again.
- Refuse and turn away. He won't do much if you decide to take a different path.
- Fight him. He prefers to fight dirty, but will try to stop the fight if you bring him low, in which case:
-- You can continue to fight. His behaviour will grow more desperate. If you kill him, you will never see him again.
-- You can let him go. If you encounter him again, he will remember that you spared him, and act more favourably to you.
- If you have enough of a reputation, his "tough-guy" demeanor will be shaken, and he will change his mind, allowing you to pass for free. You may pass, or take any of the previous options. You can also talk to him. With enough conversations, you can convince him to join you.

As an entity, he has:
Traits:
- Bandit Veteran: Starts battles with 2 stacks of Hardened.

Cards:
- Call for friends
- Hidden Revolver
- Gut
Water Technique
Does small damage but inflicts heavy bleeding.



Dusk Road Leopard
Enemy Entity

Traits:
- Ambusher: Does more damage on its first turn, if it acts first in battle.
- Predator: Does more damage to targets with 1/2 HP or less.

Cards:
- Pounce
- Scratch
Zero Cost Technique
Does minor damage to one target.
- Roar
Air Shout
Inflicts Strength Down on all enemies.



Level Scaling:
Core Mechanic
As players clear floors, enemies will get stronger and more deadly, but higher risk also means higher rewards. Level Scaling is optional, and is off by default.
Bosses are by default exempt from all scaling modifiers, unless the player decides to disable this exemption.
Scaling modifiers are cumulative, and don't disappear until the player leaves the level by any means.
Floors will always give a negative modifier. Every 2nd(?) floor will give a positive modifier in addition to the negative modifier.
Some of the more difficult modifiers will never appear on lower level floors. Each of these modifiers will have a MinimumFloor value that the player must reach before they will appear.
Some scaling modifiers have a cap. Once this cap is reached, these modifiers will not be applied any more.

List of Level Scaling modifiers:
- Enemy cards have +1 Total Damage.
- Enemies get +1 to their highest stat.
- Enemies get +1 to either their Strength or Intelligence, whichever is higher.
- Enemies have +1 Agility.
- Enemies have +1 Total HP and MP.
- Enemies that can Call For Friends are more likely to do so.
- Encounters start with another enemy. Some enemies are Unique; there can only be one in a battle, including all (most?) bosses. But bosses can have minions - the same type of enemies that can be found in the level.
- Cards are more likely to be a higher rarity.
- Find +1 card from encounters/treasure chests that give cards.
- Reward Encounters give more rewards. Or in other words, "Some random encounters are more rewarding."

Some levels can have exclusive Level Scalings:
- Dusk Road: All enemies have +1 HP regeneration.
- The Core Experiment: All enemies' cards have +1 Total Damage and all entities take 1 damage when an enemy plays a card.



Reward Encounters
Terminology
Shorthand phrase that describes random encounters that give the player stuff; cards, money, equipment, XP, other items. 



Succumb To Darkness
Light Spell
Choose a target, then choose one of the following:
- The target loses life equal to the number of stacks of each negative status effect they have.
- Convert all status effect targets on the target into Dark Might stacks
- Transform all of their cards into random cards (?).



Dark Might
Mixed Status Effect
This entity's cards have +1 Total Power per stack but they take damage equal to 1/5 of the damage their cards deal.
Whenever they play a card that doesn't deal damage, they take X damage. X is the number of cards they have played this turn.



Status Resistance
Core Mechanic
All entities have an inherent percentage status resistance for each negative status. This gives them a chance to ignore a negative status whenever it would be inflicted.
Whenevet a status effect is ignored this way, the entity's resistance goes down by 10 percentage points.
Whenever a status effect is successfully applied, their resistance for the corresponding status is reset.



Positive Resistance
Status Effect
The afflicted entity has 50 status resistance for each positive status. Positive status functions the same way as negative status resistance.



Flood
Water Spell
Costs 10 + (2 * X)
Deal heavy damage to all enemies, then inflict all enemies with X stacks of Drowning.



Reach Out To Nirvana
20 Cost Divine Spell
Until end of turn, override your Divine Offensive and Defensive Affinities to 300.



Frost Breath
10 Cost Water Spell
Deal small damage to all enemies and reduce their Action Speed by 1.



Action Speed
Core Mechanic
This is a modifier that is applied when calculating the Turn Queue.
The default Action Speed is X (maybe 5.)
Each increment/stage modifies their Readiness by +10% or -10%.



Normality
Mixed Status Effect
All of this entity's Offensive and Defensive Affinities are always 100 and cannot change.
This entity's Base Stats cannot be changed.



Static
Positive Status Effect
Whenever this entity is targeted with a card, attack that cards' controller for Air Damage with Base Power 1.



Hemorrhage
5 Cost Earth Spell
Version 1: Triple the number of Bleeding stacks the target has.
Version 2: Deal damage to one target. Damage is based on the number of Bleeding stacks the target has.
(Maybe could have an upgrade that combines both effects onto one card.)



Flow
Positive Status Effect
Your next card (that costs MP) costs 1 less MP. Lose all stacks of Flow when it triggers.



Story Arcs:

Act 1 Start: Player creates a city amongst the ashes of the old world. People slowly begin to flock to the city for refuge and safety.
Act 1 End: Player reaches a critical mass of citizens in their city. Civil unrest starts to form, regarding their leadership.

Act 2 Start:
Act 2 End: An assassination attempts to take the player's life but fails. The civil unrest reaches a critical point.

Act 3 Start: The player is told by their advisors that they need to decisively put and end to the unrest, but there are several ways to do so. Each of the following paths leads to a different Act 3 Ending:
- Abdicate their position to a single person.
- Form a council of wise old men, then step down from their position.
- Become a dictator and crack down on dissent.
- Embrace democracy and allow people to vote for a leader.
- Declare a monarchy, pass down the crown to descendants.
- Walk away in the middle of the night, leaving behind only a power vacuum.



Magitek Avenger
Enemy Entity
Traits:
- ?: Gains +1 Total Damage for every 20% of its Max MP it has.

Cards:
- Artillery Fire



Magitek Weaver
Entity
Description: A golden spider-like automata.

Cards:
- Lock On
Air Technique
The Evasion status effect is disabled on the target for X turns.
- ? 
Arcane Spell
Prevent the target from playing Spells for 1 turn.



Alternate Story Idea
As your city grows and flourishes, bad actors will attempt to tear it down. People who have embraced everything bad in this world won't stand for someone building a better world.

The story culminates with an invasion from a neighbouring army. You must rally the people around you and the home you've built together.

The morals of the story are thus:
- No matter how bad things get, always keep trying to make things better
- Don't let negative people tear you down. And don't let them destroy the things you've made.



Command
Card Type
Gameplay: Commands provide a way to enhance your allies' strength and abilities.

Command cards force the targeted ally to act when played, circumventing the Turn Queue.

There are no commands that target the user or enemies. The purpose of commands is to provide cards that let the user take advantage of their allies' strengths while providing flexibility.

Example:
A card that compels an ally to heal the whole team. Their stats will be used in the calculations, but the user pays the costs. As a trade-off for providing flexibility, Command cards will have high costs.



Bandit Leader
Enemy Entity
Traits:
- Brutal "Leadership": This entity's allies deal more damage with all cards, take more damage from all cards, and give less healing with all cards. When this entity is defeated, all allies are inflicted with 1 stack of Fear.

Cards:
- "Get them!": 
Command Shout
The targeted ally attempts to inflict Bind on all enemies. Success rate and number of stacks inflicted are based on the ally's Strength.
- Brutal Blade: 
Water Technique
Does damage to one target based on the total number of stacks of negative status effects on both the user and the target.



With Ease
Positive Status Effect
All of your cards cost 1 less. Expires at the end of your turn.



Instant
Card Supertype (or Keyword)
Instant cards can be played while there are cards on the stack. Whenever anything is added to the stack, it is always added to the front so it will be executed first.
Currently, the only exception is when one card creates multiple stack entries at the same time. The card itself will handle the order of the stack entries.



"I know a guy."
Earth Shout
2 Charges.
Guaranteed to summon an ally of the same entity type.
Charges only replenish at the end of battles.



Offering
Light Spell
Additional Cost: Sacrifice HP in increments of 3 up to a max of 15.
For every 3 HP sacrificed this way, draw 1 card and restore 2 MP.



Moment's Respite
Light Spell
All entities cannot play damaging cards until the end of your next turn.
When this card is played, all copies of it for each entity go on a 2 turn cooldown.
(A damaging card is a card



Twin Snakes
Trait
The first 2 damaging cards you play each turn have 1/2 bonus Total Power. Other damaging cards you play have -2 Base Power.



Desperate Healing
Trait
Once per turn this entity can create a random healing card with Ephemeral.
(A healing card is any card with a Base Healing value greater than zero.)



Dark Iron Armour
Equipment Set
For each piece equipped:
* The cost of your Spells is increased by 1/5th of their Base Cost, rounded to the nearest whole number.
* Your Techniques' Base Power is increased by 1/5, rounded to the nearest whole number.
Set Bonus: Whenever an enemy targets you with a Spell, their Current MP is reduced by 1/5 of their Maximum MP, rounded to the nearest whole number. This effect can reduce their Current MP below zero.



?
Boss Battle
This boss starts with all Defensive Elemental Affinities at 190 and all Status Resistances at 95. Thus they only take 1/10th damage from all attacks and only suffer a 5% chance of receiving Negative Status Ailments.

The player must bring an Ally or Summon with a special card that can *permanently* reduce their Defensive Affinities or Status Resistances.

As their HP, Defensive Affinities, and Status Resistances fall, they become more unhinged. They will gain access to more and more powerful cards, but will choose their cards and their targets more randomly.

Gaining a wider variety of cards makes them more and more unpredictable as the battle goes on.



Death Lust
Card Upgrade
Increases the damage dealt by a large amount, but also increases self-damage/recoil by a small amount.
(Cann only be applied to cards that do recoil damage.)



Bloodlust
Card Upgrade
Increases the number of times the card attacks the target(s).
(Can only be applied to cards that already attack multiple times, including cards that attack a random number of times.)



Great Sacrifice
Light Spell
Additional Cost: You lose 1 Maximum HP.
Heal any target to full HP.



Awakening Counter
Trait
Launch a Strong Counter-Attack against any Enemy that reduces your Current HP below 1/2 of your Maximum HP.



Aster
Non-Player Character
A mage that specializes in Cosmic cards.

Their story follows their struggle with expectations placed on them their whole life, going as far back as their parents finding out their mother was pregnant.

Aster comes from a long, long line of Mages that specialize in Cosmic magic. They are expected to follow in their parents' and ancestors' footsteps; studying and practicing this one specific type of magic for their whole life.

Fun fact: According to Wikipedia, the word Aster comes from the Ancient Greek word ἀστήρ (astḗr), meaning 'star'.



Evade Tank
High Cost Air Spell
End your turn.
Until your next turn, you have a 4/5 chance to dodge any damage or negative effects that would be applied to you.



Soul Strike
Moderate Cost Divine Technique
Attacks the targets' HP and MP.
(HP attacks and MP attacks use different damage formulae.)



Stinger Thrust
Low Cost Light Technique
Deal damage to one target and gain 1 stack of Evade.



Evade
Positive Status Effect
Version 1: Ignore the next card that would affect this character, then lose 1 stack of Evade.
(Affect means, but is not limited to, any of the following things: Dealing damage, applying status effects, healing)
Version 2: Ignore the next Card that would deal damage to this character, then lose 1 stack of Evade.



Gorillamorphosis
Moderate Cost Earth Spell
The user transforms into a rune-scarred gorilla. It's attacks gain a flat +X Total Power bonus that cannot be dispelled for a long as the user is metamorphosed.
